Acrobat
Each night*, choose a player: if they are or become drunk or poisoned tonight, you die.
Alchemist
You have a Minion ability. When using this, the Storyteller may prompt you to choose differently.
Alsaahir
Each day, if you publicly guess which players are Minion(s) and which are Demon(s), good wins.
Amnesiac
You do not know what your ability is. Each day, privately guess what it is: you learn how accurate you are.
Artist
Once per game, during the day, privately ask the Storyteller any yes/no question.
Atheist
The Storyteller can break the game rules, and if executed, good wins, even if you are dead. [No evil characters]
Balloonist
Each night, you learn a player of a different character type than last night. [+0 or +1 Outsider]
Banshee
If the Demon kills you, all players learn this. From now on, you may nominate twice per day and vote twice per nomination.
Bounty_Hunter
You start knowing 1 evil player. If the player you know dies, you learn another evil player tonight. [1 Townsfolk is evil]
Cannibal
You have the ability of the recently killed executee. If they are evil, you are poisoned until a good player dies by execution.
Chambermaid
Each night, choose 2 alive players (not yourself): you learn how many woke tonight due to their ability.
Chef
You start knowing how many pairs of evil players there are.
Choirboy
If the Demon kills the King, you learn which player is the Demon. [+the King]
Clockmaker
You start knowing how many steps from the Demon to its nearest Minion.
Courtier
Once per game, at night, choose a character: they are drunk for 3 nights &amp; 3 days.
Cult_Leader
Each night, you become the alignment of an alive neighbor. If all good players choose to join your cult, your team wins.
Dreamer
Each night, choose a player (not yourself or Travellers): you learn 1 good &amp; 1 evil character, 1 of which is correct.
Empath
Each night, you learn how many of your 2 alive neighbors are evil.
Engineer
Once per game, at night, choose which Minions or which Demon is in play.
Exorcist
Each night*, choose a player (different to last night): the Demon, if chosen, learns who you are then doesn't wake tonight.
Farmer
When you die at night, an alive good player becomes a Farmer.
Fisherman
Once per game, during the day, visit the Storyteller for some advice to help your team win.
Flowergirl
Each night*, you learn if a Demon voted today.
Fool
The 1st time you die, you don't.
Fortune_Teller
Each night, choose 2 players: you learn if either is a Demon. There is a good player that registers as a Demon to you.
Gambler
Each night*, choose a player &amp; guess their character: if you guess wrong, you die.
General
Each night, you learn which alignment the Storyteller believes is winning: good, evil, or neither.
Gossip
Each day, you may make a public statement. Tonight, if it was true, a player dies.
Grandmother
You start knowing a good player &amp; their character. If the Demon kills them, you die too.
High_Priestess
Each night, learn which player the Storyteller believes you should talk to most.
Huntsman
Once per game, at night, choose a living player: the Damsel, if chosen, becomes a not-in-play Townsfolk. [+the Damsel]
Innkeeper
Each night*, choose 2 players: they can't die tonight, but 1 is drunk until dusk.
Investigator
You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Minion.
Juggler
On your 1st day, publicly guess up to 5 players' characters. That night, you learn how many you got correct.
King
Each night, if the dead equal or outnumber the living, you learn 1 alive character. The Demon knows you are the King.
Knight
You start knowing 2 players that are not the Demon.
Librarian
You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Outsider. (Or that zero are in play.)
Lycanthrope
Each night*, choose an alive player. If good, they die &amp; the Demon doesn’t kill tonight. One good player registers as evil.
Magician
The Demon thinks you are a Minion. Minions think you are a Demon.
Mathematician
Each night, you learn how many players' abilities worked abnormally (since dawn) due to another character's ability.
Mayor
If only 3 players live &amp; no execution occurs, your team wins. If you die at night, another player might die instead.
Minstrel
When a Minion dies by execution, all other players (except Travellers) are drunk until dusk tomorrow.
Monk
Each night*, choose a player (not yourself): they are safe from the Demon tonight.
Nightwatchman
Once per game, at night, choose a player: they learn you are the Nightwatchman.
Noble
You start knowing 3 players, 1 and only 1 of which is evil.
Oracle
Each night*, you learn how many dead players are evil.
Pacifist
Executed good players might not die.
Philosopher
Once per game, at night, choose a good character: gain that ability. If this character is in play, they are drunk.
Pixie
You start knowing 1 in-play Townsfolk. If you were mad that you were this character, you gain their ability when they die.
Poppy_Grower
Minions &amp; Demons do not know each other. If you die, they learn who each other are that night.
Preacher
Each night, choose a player: a Minion, if chosen, learns this. All chosen Minions have no ability.
Professor
Once per game, at night*, choose a dead player: if they are a Townsfolk, they are resurrected.
Ravenkeeper
If you die at night, you are woken to choose a player: you learn their character.
Sage
If the Demon kills you, you learn that it is 1 of 2 players.
Sailor
Each night, choose an alive player: either you or they are drunk until dusk. You can't die.
Savant
Each day, you may visit the Storyteller to learn 2 things in private: 1 is true &amp; 1 is false.
Seamstress
Once per game, at night, choose 2 players (not yourself): you learn if they are the same alignment.
Shugenja
You start knowing if your closest evil player is clockwise or anti-clockwise. If equidistant, this info is arbitrary.
Slayer
Once per game, during the day, publicly choose a player: if they are the Demon, they die.
Snake_Charmer
Each night, choose an alive player: a chosen Demon swaps characters &amp; alignments with you &amp; is then poisoned.
Soldier
You are safe from the Demon.
Steward
You start knowing 1 good player.
Tea_Lady
If both your alive neighbors are good, they can't die.
Town_Crier
Each night*, you learn if a Minion nominated today.
Undertaker
Each night*, you learn which character died by execution today.
Village_Idiot
Each night, choose a player: you learn their alignment. [+0 to +2 Village Idiots. 1 of the extras is drunk]
Virgin
The 1st time you are nominated, if the nominator is a Townsfolk, they are executed immediately.
Washerwoman
You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Townsfolk.
Barber
If you died today or tonight, the Demon may choose 2 players (not another Demon) to swap characters.
Butler
Each night, choose a player (not yourself): tomorrow, you may only vote if they are voting too.
Damsel
All Minions know a Damsel is in play. If a Minion publicly guesses you (once), your team loses.
Drunk
You do not know you are the Drunk. You think you are a Townsfolk character, but you are not.
Golem
You may only nominate once per game. When you do, if the nominee is not the Demon, they die.
Goon
Each night, the 1st player to choose you with their ability is drunk until dusk. You become their alignment.
Hatter
If you died today or tonight, the Minion &amp; Demon players may choose new Minion &amp; Demon characters to be.
Heretic
Whoever wins, loses &amp; whoever loses, wins, even if you are dead.
Klutz
When you learn that you died, publicly choose 1 alive player: if they are evil, your team loses.
Lunatic
You think you are a Demon, but you are not. The Demon knows who you are &amp; who you choose at night.
Moonchild
When you learn that you died, publicly choose 1 alive player. Tonight, if it was a good player, they die.
Mutant
If you are "mad" about being an Outsider, you might be executed.
Ogre
On your 1st night, choose a player (not yourself): you become their alignment (you don't know which) even if drunk or poisoned.
Plague_Doctor
When you die, the Storyteller gains a Minion ability.
Politician
If you were the player most responsible for your team losing, you change alignment &amp; win, even if dead.
Puzzlemaster
1 player is drunk, even if you die. If you guess (once) who it is, learn the Demon player, but guess wrong &amp; get false info.
Recluse
You might register as evil &amp; as a Minion or Demon, even if dead.
Saint
If you die by execution, your team loses.
Snitch
Each Minion gets 3 bluffs.
Sweetheart
When you die, 1 player is drunk from now on.
Tinker
You might die at any time.
Zealot
If there are 5 or more players alive, you must vote for every nomination.
Assassin
Once per game, at night*, choose a player: they die, even if for some reason they could not.
Baron
There are extra Outsiders in play. [+2 Outsiders]
Boffin
The Demon (even if drunk or poisoned) has a not-in-play good character's ability. You both know which.
Boomdandy
If you are executed, all but 3 players die. After a 10 to 1 countdown, the player with the most players pointing at them, dies.
Cerenovus
Each night, choose a player &amp; a good character: they are "mad" they are this character tomorrow, or might be executed.
Devil's_Advocate
Each night, choose a living player (different to last night): if executed tomorrow, they don't die.
Evil_Twin
You &amp; an opposing player know each other. If the good player is executed, evil wins. Good can't win if you both live.
Fearmonger
Each night, choose a player: if you nominate &amp; execute them, their team loses. All players know if you choose a new player.
Goblin
If you publicly claim to be the Goblin when nominated &amp; are executed that day, your team wins.
Godfather
You start knowing which Outsiders are in play. If 1 died today, choose a player tonight: they die. [-1 or +1 Outsider]
Harpy
Each night, choose 2 players: tomorrow, the 1st player is mad that the 2nd is evil, or one or both might die.
Marionette
You think you are a good character, but you are not. The Demon knows who you are. [You neighbor the Demon]
Mastermind
If the Demon dies by execution (ending the game), play for 1 more day. If a player is then executed, their team loses.
Mezepheles
You start knowing a secret word. The 1st good player to say this word becomes evil that night.
Organ_Grinder
All players keep their eyes closed when voting and the vote tally is secret. Each night, choose if you are drunk until dusk.
Pit-Hag
Each night*, choose a player &amp; a character they become (if not in play). If a Demon is made, deaths tonight are arbitrary.
Poisoner
Each night, choose a player: they are poisoned tonight and tomorrow day.
Psychopath
Each day, before nominations, you may publicly choose a player: they die. If executed, you only die if you lose roshambo.
Scarlet_Woman
If there are 5 or more players alive &amp; the Demon dies, you become the Demon. (Travellers don't count.)
Spy
Each night, you see the Grimoire. You might register as good &amp; as a Townsfolk or Outsider, even if dead.
Summoner
You get 3 bluffs. On the 3rd night, choose a player: they become an evil Demon of your choice. [No Demon]
Vizier
All players know you are the Vizier. You cannot die during the day. If good voted, you may choose to execute immediately.
Widow
On your 1st night, look at the Grimoire &amp; choose a player: they are poisoned. 1 good player knows a Widow is in play.
Witch
Each night, choose a player: if they nominate tomorrow, they die. If just 3 players live, you lose this ability.
Wizard
Once per game, choose to make a wish. If granted, it might have a price &amp; leave a clue as to its nature.
Xaan
On night X, all Townsfolk are poisoned until dusk. [X Outsiders]
Al-Hadikhia
Each night*, you may choose 3 players (all players learn who): each silently chooses to live or die, but if all live, all die.
Fang_Gu
Each night*, choose a player: they die. The 1st Outsider this kills becomes an evil Fang Gu &amp; you die instead. [+1 Outsider]
Imp
Each night*, choose a player: they die. If you kill yourself this way, a Minion becomes the Imp.
Kazali
Each night*, choose a player: they die. [You choose which players are which Minions. -? to +? Outsiders]
Legion
Each night*, a player might die. Executions fail if only evil voted. You register as a Minion too. [Most players are Legion]
Leviathan
If more than 1 good player is executed, evil wins. All players know you are in play. After day 5, evil wins.
Lil'_Monsta
Each night, Minions choose who babysits Lil' Monsta &amp; "is the Demon". Each night*, a player might die. [+1 Minion]
Lleech
Each night*, choose a player: they die. You start by choosing a player: they are poisoned. You die if &amp; only if they are dead.
Lord_of_Typhon
Each night*, choose a player: they die. [Evil characters are in a line. You are in the middle. +1 Minion. -? to +? Outsiders]
No_Dashii
Each night*, choose a player: they die. Your 2 Townsfolk neighbors are poisoned.
Ojo
Each night*, choose a character: they die. If they are not in play, the Storyteller chooses who dies.
Po
Each night*, you may choose a player: they die. If your last choice was no-one, choose 3 players tonight.
Pukka
Each night, choose a player: they are poisoned. The previously poisoned player dies then becomes healthy.
Riot
On day 3, Minions become Riot &amp; nominees die but nominate an alive player immediately. This must happen.
Shabaloth
Each night*, choose 2 players: they die. A dead player you chose last night might be regurgitated.
Vigormortis
Each night*, choose a player: they die. Minions you kill keep their ability &amp; poison 1 Townsfolk neighbor. [-1 Outsider]
Vortox
Each night*, choose a player: they die. Townsfolk abilities yield false info. Each day, if no-one is executed, evil wins.
Yaggababble
You start knowing a secret phrase. For each time you said it publicly today, a player might die.
Zombuul
Each night*, if no-one died today, choose a player: they die. The 1st time you die, you live but register as dead.
